03/03/24
I am Bailey Moir. I am a student at the University of Canterbury. I am once a son, and thrice a brother. I don't know my ancestry, which has never been important to me. In 2013, I lost my father to cancer, amongst other illnesses, and he left a hole in my life. He played guitar, which led me to try it myself a few years after he died, and I somehow stuck with it. In about 2016, my mother caved and we got a small dog (which I named Tugzo) who is now 11 but still acts like a puppy. I am deeply passionate about my studies. My greatest passions and joys are programming and math, with a close third of creating educational resources, such as notes and interactive tools. I was introduced to programming when I was nine years old in year five by a teacher who would go on to mentor me in programming and robotics up until year 11. My passion for math started in year 9, born from my attempt to prove myself academically after being put in a lower academic banding. I habitually watch hours on end of Netflix and YouTube in a flawed attempt to give myself a break. I define myself by many key traits, but one of the most rigid is honesty. I refuse to say things that are untrue with intent to deceive (whilst outside of a game, and with exception of my youngest brother because it is funny to mess with him). This has many benefits, such as not having to lie, not getting into spirals of dishonesty, and people knowing they can take my word for things. My favourite: poem is 'The View from Halfway Down' from BoJack Horseman, band is 'fun.', novel is Scythe by Neil Shusterman, and movie is Marriage Story by Noah Baumbach. I am not a religious person, but if I had to describe myself I would be somewhere between agnostic and Christian. This is because there is a lot I don't agree with, and even more I don't understand. I am politically undecided. I have right-leaning parents and left-leaning friends, and I am sitting somewhere in the middle while I figure out what I do and do not believe/agree with. I have always thought of myself as socially awkward. I am not the type of person who needs a lot of friends. For almost the entirety of high school, I would consistently be in a group of exactly four close-knit friends. Those four people would change, with Bede and Kyle becoming Samuel and Gavith, and Samuel and Naomi becoming Daniel and Bidhya, but there would always be 4.
